Why I'm not just another Engineer?

I'm a Renaissance polymath with sheer interests in Data Science, Machine Learning, E-commerce and Optimization and User Experience.

I have been inspired by world's greatest philanthropists Warren Buffet and Jeff Bezos.
I believe in constant, continuous and creative learning. I enjoy reading books on happiness and investments. I am a storyteller who loves traveling, and loves people and their experiences.

Knowledge of Data Analytics along with a pinch of User Experience and Business acumen make me stand out of crowd.

I love data crunching and solving data-driven business problems which carved a path to accomplish industry-recognized certifications, projects and moreover assisted me in acquiring a blend of skill-set - R Programming, Machine Learning, Excel Modelling, SQL for Analytics, Descriptive Statistics, Inferential Statistics and Data Visualization.

Worked on a plethora of Datasets, projects and also solved a couple of problems using Logistic Regression, Kernal SVM, Random Forests, XGBoost and Neural Network algorithms. Well-equipped with mathematical concepts of Regression and Classification. Ventured a tad bit into Basket Segmentation and Recommendation Models - Apriori. Fond of gradient boosting - XGBoost, used to upscale the algorithmic model.

I am thriving hard to get closer to perfection everyday by putting in labour to study concepts and
apply them in my projects. Clarity of thought process and articulation is one of the major strengths which most of the time acts as edge over others. With real hunger to expand my knowledge base, I look forward for greater opportunities and challenges to sharpen my analytical skill 




You are the sky that fuels my flight.
I am but, just a shadow of you.




I build software out of passion all day long, and I'm good at it. I write efficient and maintainable low latency software for High Frequency Trading in C++, with a belief that code quality need not be compromised for performance. I'm also a programming polyglot, and have a wide array of advanced Computer Science skills useful across the board.

I have many open source projects on Github which have received significant attention and are used by the community; and have two research publications. Strong background in functional programming.

Above-par reasoning and technical know-how. Confident of being able to take any challenge to its completion.
I have won multiple competitions in App Development, Security, and am a recipient of multiple scholarships and awards.



Utkarsh is currently working as “Software Consultant I” for AssetOne where he is keen on harnessing AI/ML for Enterprise Asset Management. He thrives for perfection and writing quality code makes him feel alive. Over the past, he has consulted some the most fancy company including pwc, IBM India Software Labs, NTPC, Bharti Airtel are only a few. He also has interests in many different disciplines, such as DataOps, Infrastructure Automation, Cloud Architecture, Big Data, Deep Learning, and Data Engineering.

In his free time, either, he write/read technical blogs, or plays Badminton. He has also received “Best Student award” by University chancellor in 2015 and “Unnati Scholarship” during his undergrad.

Specialties:
DB2
Cloud Infrastructure
Amazon Web Services
Enterprise Asset Management
IBM WebSphere
IBM Cognos
Java
Python
Automation Scripts
Infrastructure Automation (Shell Scripting/ Powershell)
Software Design

